---
layout: post
title: "Non-banks cannot load credit lines into prepaid payment instruments: RBI"
category: Finance
color: c7
tags: rbi credit
image: https://static.inshorts.com/inshorts/images/v1/variants/jpg/m/2022/06_jun/20_mon/img_1655742800382_804.jpg
source: "MoneyControl"
source_url: https://inshorts.com/en/news/nonbanks-cannot-load-credit-lines-into-prepaid-payment-instruments-rbi-1655743834381?utm_source=news_share
---

The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has issued a clarification saying that non-bank prepaid payment instruments (PPIs) such as wallets and prepaid cards, cannot load credit lines into these instruments. "Such practice, if followed, should be stopped immediately," the RBI said in a notification. According to reports, the RBI has sent the notification to non-bank PPI issuers, including fintech startups.

In what comes as a blow for well-funded fintech startups such as Jupiter, Slice, Uni, PayU's LazyPay, Fi, among others, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on June 20 issued a clarification on Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs) such as wallets and prepaid cards, saying that non-bank institutions cannot load credit lines into these instruments, according to sources.

The notification was addressed to "All Authorised Non-bank Prepaid Payment Instrument (PPI) Issuers." According to multiple sources, the notification was sent to non-bank PPI issuers, including fintech players.

RBI's official notification on its website is awaited.

RBI's clarification which was reviewed by Moneycontrol said, "The PPI-MD does not permit loading of PPIs from credit lines. Such practice, if followed, should be stopped immediately. Any non-compliance in this regard may attract penal action under provisions contained in the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007."

PPI-MD refers to the Master Direction on these instruments, a document that consolidates instructions on rules and regulations.

The immediate impact of this clarification is unclear; however, fintech players like Jupiter allow customers to load their credit line in a digital wallet and spend the credit line by linking it to the Unified Payments Interface (UPI), in partnership with PPI issuer LivQuik.